# Forest Health using G-LIHT

Deep learning algorithms to map damaged trees in forests.

## Data Locations

This repository includes the training, test, and validation data generated by
Anika in an old iteration of this project. The data is listed below:

- `data/*.png`: images are the original camera and labels data generated by Anika
- `data/*.json`: COCO-formatted dataset for the original megratron model

## Original Modeling Methodology

The original methodology was based on the MaskRCNN model. We used the detectron2 framework to train
a MaskRCNN model using transfer learning. The problem would receive camera images as input, and boundary
segmentations of dead trees. This therefore allowed us to perform instance segmentation of trees to both find
them, and then also specify their health status (dead or not dead).

We focused the training data only in dead trees, thus our outputs would only find trees that were dead. The
training dataset was relatively small, but leveraging transfer learning allowed us to be able to find dead
trees without significant labeling efforts.

Since Anika left, the project was stopped. But this are the things I would have liked to fix/work on:
- New/updated model (YOLO for example)
- Labels that include all types of trees, but then are sublabeled as dead or not dead
- Automated pipeline to process full scenes

## New Example Modeling Methodology

Explain proposed method (just as a suggestion).

## Environment Setup

Installing on existing repository

```bash
1041  2021-04-03 08:34:13  pip install tensorboard cmake
 1042  2021-04-03 08:34:35  pip install torch==1.8 torchvision==0.9 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu101/torch_stable.html
 1043  2021-04-03 08:37:20  pip install 'git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/fvcore'
 1044  2021-04-03 08:38:14  pip install 'git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2.git'
 1045  2021-04-03 08:39:07  gcc
 1046  2021-04-03 08:39:11  gcc --version
 1047  2021-04-03 08:39:19  pip list | grep cmake
 1048  2021-04-03 08:39:30  gcc -std=c++14
 1049  2021-04-03 08:40:32  ls
 1050  2021-04-03 08:41:49  cd /att/nobackup/jacaraba/
 1051  2021-04-03 08:41:49  ls
 1052  2021-04-03 08:41:50  git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2
 1053  2021-04-03 08:42:16  pip install 'git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2.git'
 1054  2021-04-03 08:43:05  module avail
 1055  2021-04-03 08:43:17  module load gcc/8.4.0
 1056  2021-04-03 08:43:19  pip install 'git+https://github.com/facebookresearch/detectron2.git'
 ```
 
 Dockerfile for later is located in the repository tree.
